---
title: "Week 31-34. New trainings"
excerpt: "New tests changing the possibilities of the environment"


sidebar:
  nav: "docs"

classes: wide

categories:
- Main project. Second iteration

tags:
- logbook
- project
- week 31-34
- behaviors_suite
- gym_gazebo

author: NachoAz
pinned: false


---

## To Do

- [ ] Change pose every epoch.
- [ ] New action set.
- [ ] New training with the new configuration.

## Progress

### Solving intermediate problems

Over the past few weeks I have had some problems getting the environment to achieve productive training for various reasons:

- When it's been over 20,000 times, the only thing it's learned is to step out of line and always to the right. This change occurred when it went from 5 actions to 21.
- To try to solve it we proposed to position the car in different points of the circuit and that it had different contexts in each epoch but I am still working on it since there are conflicts between Gazebo's topics and the reset and proxy of the Python library.
- I'm back to basic examples: 5 actions with a constant linear speed to try to make the robot do the curve well. The following table shows a summary of the space for observations and actions in this iteration:

| Num  | Observation          | Min  | Max  |
| ---- | -------------------- | ---- | ---- |
| 0    | Vel. Lineal (m/s)    | 1    | 10   |
| 1    | Vel. Angular (rad/s) | -2   | 2    |
| 2    | Error 1              | -300 | 300  |
| 3    | Error 2              | -280 | 280  |
| 4    | Error 3              | -250 | 250  |

The action spaces is:

| Num  | Action |
| ---- | ------ |
| 0    | -2     |
| 1    | -1     |
| 2    | 0      |
| 3    | 1      |
| 4    | 2      |


- At the same time, I'm fixing a lot of bugs I had pending (every time I restart the environment they count 3 times until a correct one starts) and refactoring the code a lot.


## Working

Keep correcting mistakes like: until I load the rviz you don't make correct steps...a very rare mistake I'm working on right now. Once it's fixed I'll try to launch a training.

## Learning

This new step where we already want to try to get the robot to turn a little more complete but each iteration improves different things. 
